Ankle fractures may include breaks to
any of the three bones that make up the ankle joint.
The ends of the calf bone, or fibula,
and shinbone, or tibia,
are the most common sites for ankle fractures;
but the ankle bone, or talus, may also be broken.
Fractures commonly occur when the ankle is rolled
either to the inside or the outside.
They may also be caused by twisting the ankle,
falling on it in an awkward manor,
or blunt trauma such as that which
may be experienced during a car accident.
The most common type of ankle fracture
involves the lateral malleolus or end of the fibula.
Fractures to the medial malleolus
or inside part of the tibia, are less common.
If both the tibia and fibula are broken,
it is called a bimalleolar fracture.
A sudden forceful twisting of the ankle
may lead to a trimalleolar fracture.
A trimalleolar fracture refers to
fractures of the end of the fibula,
the lateral malleolus,
as well as two separate fractures to the
inside and back of the tibia
or medial malleolus.